The front_locations structure is the output of the Standard_Front_locs code. Hopefully it provides a fairly good standardized definition of the front locations. The definition used here is based on the maximum and minimum salinity gradients for each transect. The code also defines a location based on the 28.97 isohaline, but this is only useful for the first half of the student cruise period.

The front_lcocations file is a structure with fields for each asset, and subfields for positive and negative fronts. Positive vs negative is defined as salinity gradient from west to east. Each of these subfields contains a matrix with one row for each Point Sur transect, and the following columns:

[time,along track position,cross track position,longitude,latitude,good location mask]

The good location mask field is a one or zero based on my by-eye estimate of whether the location generated by the algorithm is a useful one.


The Standard_Front_locs.m code takes in flow through data, and divides it into sections, specifically for the student cruise section. Sections are based on the Point Sur section definitions, so may not be precisely correct for other assets. Front position is calculated by looking at the maximum and minimum in the salinity gradient for each section.

diff_diff.m is a centered difference scheme that I wrote.

The two rhib flow through files are a concatenation of all the rhib CTD files for the cruise. They are a bit jankey, so I haven't put them in the main drive. In particular, the salinity de-spiking algorithm I’m using removes 50 points from each end of the timeseries, I haven’t bothered to add back NaNs in their place. I’ll get around to it someday…
